README.md, before:

# Ordinary Wizards

### Authors: Joren De Smet, Aaditiya Nepal, Flynn Mol, Daria Matviichuk, Lucas Vanden Abele & Thomas Urkens
#### Created at the University Of Antwerp, 2024 for the course Programming Project Databases (2nd Bachelor's degree in Computer Science)
## Introduction
Web-based idle game using THREE.js for 3D visuals.

Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet, consectetur adipiscing elit. Sed do eiusmod tempor incididunt ut labore et dolore magna aliqua. Ut enim ad minim veniam, quis nostrud exercitation ullamco laboris nisi ut aliquip ex ea commodo consequat. Duis aute irure dolor in reprehenderit in voluptate velit esse cillum dolore eu fugiat nulla pariatur. Excepteur sint occaecat cupidatat non proident, sunt in culpa qui officia deserunt mollit anim id est laborum.

## Project setup
The project is divided into two main parts: the backend and the frontend. The backend is a RESTful API built using Flask, SQLAlchemy, flask-restful and flask-migrate, that communicates with an external PostgreSQL database.
The frontend is a multi-page (landing, login, register & index pages) web application built using jQuery, THREE.js, SocketIO and out-of-the-box JavaScript, CSS & HTML.

## Installation & running debug server
Execute all the following commands from the root directory of the project.
1. Setup a Python (3.10+) virtual environment and install the required packages using the following commands:
    ```bash
    python3 -m venv venv
    source venv/bin/activate
    pip install -r requirements.txt
    ```

2. Setup a PostgreSQL database and fill in the connection details in the (user created) `.env` file:
    ```bash
    APP_POSTGRES_HOST=127.0.0.1
    APP_POSTGRES_PORT=5432
    APP_POSTGRES_DATABASE=ordinary_wizards
    APP_POSTGRES_USER=ordinary_wizards
    APP_POSTGRES_PASSWORD=<password>
    ```
3. Setup app environment variables as well in the `.env` file:
    ```bash
    APP_BIND=127.0.0.1
    APP_HOST=127.0.0.1:5000
    APP_HOST_SCHEME=http
    APP_SECRET_KEY=<secret_key> # optional
    APP_NAME=Ordinary Wizards
    APP_JWT_SECRET_KEY=jwtRS256.key
    ```
    For a full, detailed list of environment variables, see the [.env.md](docs/ENV.md) file.

4. Generate secret `jwtRS256.key` using the (`keygen.py`)[keygen.py] script:
    ```bash
    python3 keygen.py
    ```

5. Make sure to run the following command to create the database tables:
    ```bash
    flask --app src.app db upgrade
    ```
   
6. Run the Flask debug server using the following command:
    ```bash
    python3 -m src.app
    ```
   
## Documentation

Please refer to [DOCUMENTATION.md](docs/DOCUMENTATION.md) for more information about the project structure, the API, the database schema and the 3D visuals.

Commit message:

Added note about WebSockets and Gunicorn in README

README.md, after:

# Ordinary Wizards

### Authors: Joren De Smet, Aaditiya Nepal, Flynn Mol, Daria Matviichuk, Lucas Vanden Abele & Thomas Urkens
#### Created at the University Of Antwerp, 2024 for the course Programming Project Databases (2nd Bachelor's degree in Computer Science)
## Introduction
Web-based idle game using THREE.js for 3D visuals.

Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet, consectetur adipiscing elit. Sed do eiusmod tempor incididunt ut labore et dolore magna aliqua. Ut enim ad minim veniam, quis nostrud exercitation ullamco laboris nisi ut aliquip ex ea commodo consequat. Duis aute irure dolor in reprehenderit in voluptate velit esse cillum dolore eu fugiat nulla pariatur. Excepteur sint occaecat cupidatat non proident, sunt in culpa qui officia deserunt mollit anim id est laborum.

## Project setup
The project is divided into two main parts: the backend and the frontend. The backend is a RESTful API built using Flask, SQLAlchemy, flask-restful and flask-migrate, that communicates with an external PostgreSQL database.
The frontend is a multi-page (landing, login, register & index pages) web application built using jQuery, THREE.js, SocketIO and out-of-the-box JavaScript, CSS & HTML.

## Installation & running debug server
Execute all the following commands from the root directory of the project.
1. Setup a Python (3.10+) virtual environment and install the required packages using the following commands:
    ```bash
    python3 -m venv venv
    source venv/bin/activate
    pip install -r requirements.txt
    ```

2. Setup a PostgreSQL database and fill in the connection details in the (user created) `.env` file:
    ```bash
    APP_POSTGRES_HOST=127.0.0.1
    APP_POSTGRES_PORT=5432
    APP_POSTGRES_DATABASE=ordinary_wizards
    APP_POSTGRES_USER=ordinary_wizards
    APP_POSTGRES_PASSWORD=<password>
    ```
3. Setup app environment variables as well in the `.env` file:
    ```bash
    APP_BIND=127.0.0.1
    APP_HOST=127.0.0.1:5000
    APP_HOST_SCHEME=http
    APP_SECRET_KEY=<secret_key> # optional
    APP_NAME=Ordinary Wizards
    APP_JWT_SECRET_KEY=jwtRS256.key
    ```
    For a full, detailed list of environment variables, see the [.env.md](docs/ENV.md) file.

4. Generate secret `jwtRS256.key` using the (`keygen.py`)[keygen.py] script:
    ```bash
    python3 keygen.py
    ```

5. Make sure to run the following command to create the database tables:
    ```bash
    flask --app src.app db upgrade
    ```
   
6. Run the Flask debug server using the following command:
    ```bash
    python3 -m src.app
    ```
   
**Important note when running Gunicorn WSGI server**: Gunicorn does not support WebSocket connections (as the loadbalancing algorithm does not work with WebSockets), which this app requires.
In order to fix this, you must run gunicorn with only **1 worker** and use threading for workload spread. 

## Documentation

Please refer to [DOCUMENTATION.md](docs/DOCUMENTATION.md) for more information about the project structure, the API, the database schema and the 3D visuals.
